# Chapter1
 
Welcome to the repository for the first chapter of my dissertation. This chapter primarily focuses on inferring the demographic history of sunflower domestication. Within this repository, you will find scripts (folders 01-07) to perform the GATK variant calling pipeline that will generate the base and VQSR-calibrated VCF that is ultimately processed for downstream analyses. GATK-generated VCFs using version 4.2.6.0 and later contain spanning INDELS and have missing genotypes annotated as 0/0, which do not cooperate with many software packages that use genotype information without consulting depth at that position; folder 08 contains a script that fixes this to cooperate with all downstream software. Folder 09 contains prep scripts for collecting information from the VQSR-calibrated VCF, finds missing positions, and inserts that position into the VCF as ./. for all samples --> important for SMC++ (I have found this method to run smoother for itentifying missing positions, as opposed to generating a bedFile mask). Folder 10 contains all scripts used to generate SMC++ plots of sunflower domestication demographics and evolutionary history. These scripts assume the method for identifying missing positions as written into the VCF as ./.; not masking with a bedFile. Folders 11-15 contain various clustering methods: PCA, haplotype networks (plastome and mitochondria), phylogenetic analysis via RAxML, TreeMix, and fastStructure. These methods, when used individually and together, helped us identify misidentified samples and detect inerspecific and intraspecific admixture - these samples were removed from downstream analyses.

Please contact me at peter_stokes@berkeley.edu if you have any questions
